So in this segment, we're gonna talk
about how to map collaboration networks.
We now have some insight into
the building blocks that we can use to
describe collaboration networks,
but if we wanted to develop and
actually be able to map and
draw out a collaboration network for
our own organization, or a particular
organization that we're interested in.
How do we come up with those network maps?
This was the new product development team
that we've been looking at 15 people,
in a pretty small team.
How do we understand which
direction these arrows go in?
Who actually collaborates with whom
inside this particular team or
inside the larger organization?
Now, this is a pretty simple network map,
as I said, we only have 15 people here,
but actually, mapping networks can
get much more complicated than this.
Here is a network map from a much
larger organization where you've got,
several hundred people,
who are collaborating,
you're trying to figure out
who collaborates with whom.
So this kind of network map, it looks
like a giant fuzzy hairball, right?
This is pretty typical if you're trying to
map collaboration in a larger organization
with more employees and what you often
see in these kinds of network maps.
The ones that look like giant,
fuzzy hairballs, is that you have clusters
of employees who collaborate a lot.
And, then there's bridges to other
clusters of employees who collaborate
along with each other.
So, this kind of collaboration map,
as you can imagine,
is actually pretty complex, right?
And so, how do we go about generating
this kind of a map for our organization?
What I wanna do is give
you a sense first for
what we're trying to get to here,
what kind of data we want to collect,
then we'll back up and
look at how do we collect that data.
So this is an example of the kind of
network data that we're trying to collect
and here, this example is for
the 15 member product development team.
So in this particular matrix what we're
trying to generate basically is a matrix
that says for
every individual in the organization or
in this product development
team all 15 of them.
If you list them down the column and
then you list the 15 people,
same 15 people along the top,
along the row at the top,
you're trying to find what
values should be in each cell.
In other words, if you take Alex
right as one member of this team.
You wannna know how frequently does Alex
seek information from Ali, from Bill,
from Carl, from David and so on,
all the way down the column, all right?
Now this kind of a matrix for
this particular network question is also
asymmetric, that means what you've got
in the bottom left corner are gonna
be different values possibly from
what you have in the top right corner
because if you think about Alex could seek
information from Ally, Bill, and Kyle.
But if you take Ally,
Ally might not seek the same information
from Alex as Alex seeks from Ally.
In other words Ally can
have different values for
an answer to that question, they don't,
if I say I seek information from you,
you don't necessarily say you
seek information from me.
So for each of these cells,
you want to figure out How much?
What's their answer to this question
of how frequently do I seek information
from this person.
Halley, Bill, Colin, David,
all the way down so,
this is the kind of matrix
we're trying to populate.
We're trying to figure out what
are the values in each of these cells
in order to generate a network, right?
This is what we need
to generate a network.
So how do we get this
data in the first place?
There's two main ways.
Probably the most commonly
used way is through surveys,
the other set of ways
is from other sources.
There's lots of sources, and particularly
more and more sources coming available for
collecting that work data.
But surveys are the main way that
network data is usually collected inside
organizations, so
we're gonna focus mostly on that.
So how do you collect
network data via surveys?
This is fairly straightforward if you're
used to administering surveys inside
organizations, and you know the basics
of survey administration, but I'm
gonna just highlight a couple of things
that are distinctive for network data.
So, we're gonna have to think about how to
identify our sample, create the survey,
administer and monitor the survey and
clean and enter the data.
So let's take each of those in turn,
so for identifying the sample.
So when you're thinking about a network
the first thing that you have to do is
figure out what's
the boundaries of that sample?
In other words,
who is it that I want to survey?
And for a network it's pretty important
that you understand the boundaries of that
network cause you want to get everybody
inside that particular maybe it's a formal
unit or division or
department of the organization.
Maybe it's a particular
geographical location,
I wanna survey everybody in the New York
office and the Michigan office and
the Shanghai office and
maybe it's the communities of practice.
I want everybody who belongs to that
particular community of practice,
maybe it's cohorts.
I want the more senior executives, or
I want people who have been here between
five and ten years in the organization,
maybe it's a particular set of
teams that you want to survey.
So you need to figure out who
is it that you want to survey,
what are the boundaries of that sample.
The second element for a network survey
is you want to be very careful about
the number of people
inside those boundaries,
the number of people in the sample.
You don’t want too few really
because there’s not much point so
you don’t really want,
if you’re doing a network survey of less
than 25 people you're usually gonna pretty
much know who collaborates with whom if
you know anything about that unit already.
You don't necessarily need to go
through this whole in order to do it.
So if it's a very small sample it
might not be worth the effort, but
you also have to be very careful on the
other side that the sample isn't too large
because we're gonna look in a minute
how you ask network questions.
But essentially, what you're doing is
you're asking people to report on their
ties with every single other person in the
sample, so 300 is already a lot of people.
If you're getting above 300 you're
asking people to report on 299 plus
other people that they interact with and
that's just very time consuming.
It's the kind of thing people
don't like doing in a survey.
They'll stop answering the survey and
you won't have any data.
So you really need to watch that
the sample doesn't get too large.
Now, in terms of creating the survey,
again, a lot of this is stuff that if you
have designed surveys before,
you'll know already.
But you wanna be very careful to write
a good opening statement where you
explain what the purpose of the survey
is also very important in network survey
because you are asking about people's
interactions by name with others.
To preserve confidentiality and
a sure people that if they report on their
relationship with somebody else it's
not gonna get to somebody else.
You need to design network questions, and
I'm gonna come to that in a little
bit more detail in a second.
You need to think about what
other questions you want
beyond the network questions.
Maybe you wanna know about people's rank,
or about their ambitions, or
about whether they wanna leave
the organization within a few years.
Whatever other questions you wanna ask,
you need to think very carefully,
as in all surveys, about the order of
the questions and how they're formatted.
You need to test and refine
the survey before you send it out and
as with most surveys, you wanna
keep it to 10 to 15 minutes or so.
It's very easy for network surveys to
get very long, because again you're
asking people to report on their
relationships with lots of other people.
But trying to keep it to not more
than 15 minutes is really gonna
help your response rates.
Let me just say a quick word on the next
slide about the network questions,
cuz this is obviously the harder of what
the kind of data you're trying to collect
in a network survey.
So when you're asking network questions,
as I sort of already indicated,
you are asking the persons responding
to the survey, to talk about or
report on their relationships with
everybody else in the sample.
So here's just an example of
what that would look like for
the 15 member product development
team that we've been looking at.
So, this network question says,
below is a list of all the members of your
product development team, how frequently
do you go to each of these individuals to
seek information related to your work.
And so if you take Alex,
Alex is gonna have to report and
fill in one of those bubbles for Ali, for
Bill, for Carl, for David, and so on and,
this is fine if it's a 15 member team.
If it's 25 people it's
already quite a lot,
if you're talking about 300
people it's really a lot.
So when I've done network surveys inside
organizations, the largest I've done has
been about 280, and usually we try to
whittle that number down pretty fast and
say, well just report on your
most important relationships, and
then let me ask you more
questions about that.
So there's ways you can handle this, but
keeping an eye on the number of people
that you're asking about their
networks is gonna be very important.
Okay, so back to the stages,
the third stage is to administer and
monitor the survey.
Again, this is not rocket science it
really helps to have a cover note
from a senior sponsor saying
why we're doing the survey,
we really want you to fill it in, thinking
carefully about the timing of the survey.
Are you sending it out at a time
when people are actually gonna
be able to respond to it?
But the piece I want to emphasize here is
sort of the incentives and the need for
a high response rate.
So for
a network survey it's very important
to have a very high response rate.
So there's many kinds of surveys
you can do where, if you get a 10,
15, 20% response rate you're
gonna be happy, right?
Climate surveys and organizations for
example, but in a network survey,
that's nowhere near good enough.
So in a network survey,
because you're trying to map everybody's
connections with each other,
if you don't have half the people
responding you're not gonna know what
those people's networks are at all right,
you're gonna have a big gap in your data.
So the sort of rule of thumb
is probably you need at least
around 80% response rate for
a survey to be successful and for
the data to be really good,
good enough to do network analysis on.
So that means you've gotta really
think about these timing issues,
the sponsorship issues and maybe
offering some kinds of incentives for
people to respond to the survey.
So in a recent survey that we did, that
I did with my research team for example,
we looked at, we actually offered
incentives in the form of if you fill in
the survey and return it on time.
We'll give $5 to Special Olympics and
so it can be something, current event,
it can be something that the
organization's invested in at the time.
People sometimes do, we'll put your
name in a hat and you'll win an iPad, so
there's lots of possibilities here.
But, because response rates are so
important, thinking creatively about this
might be more important perhaps than
it is for some other kinds of surveys.
And then the last element in terms of
collecting network data by surveys,
is you know once you get the data in, so
once you got all the surveys returned,
you collate, clean, and enter
the data as you would for any survey.
Very often for
network data we do this in Excel, and
we create that kind of spreadsheet
that the matrix looks a lot like
the one that I just showed you earlier.
Once you've got it in Excel,
you can use network
data analysis packages to analyze this
data and, I'm not gonna go into them here,
it's a whole another module at least
and, possibly a whole course by itself.
To understand how to analyze the data using
the available software packages, but,
at this point I'll just say that you
can buy or you can sometimes get for
free visualization packages that will
help you to plot those networks so
the giant fuzzy hairball plotting that
by hand is more or less impossible.
You get data packages that
will help you do that, and
to analyze the data and run the metrics.
For example, the measures of density and
centrality that we were talking about on
the network data using specific packages.
Some of the best known are UCINET and
Netdraw to help analyze and
visualize the data.
So again, where that gets us to hopefully
is this matrix in Excel that tells us who,
and in this case information from whom,
and then we can use that data,
analyze that data using these packages.
So collecting network data via surveys is
the most common way in which it's done,
but there are some drawbacks that
it's important to be aware of.
The pros are that you can ask exactly what
questions you want from your sample and
get customized and
quite detailed specific information.
But on the con side, the issues that
I've already mentioned just underscore,
you've gotta have high response rates,
the network can't be too large,
you can't make the survey too long.
You can't ask everything you
want to ask in the world,
you've got to kind of decide
what you really need to ask.
You have to be very careful in terms
of how you word the questions and
how you interpret the questions, cause
in any survey this is the case, right?
If you ask people a specific question,
who do you seek information from?
Do you wanna ask them only about
information related to the tasks?
Do you wanna ask them about
other kinds of advice?
Just understanding exactly what you're
asking and what people are gonna be
thinking when they answer that question
is gonna make a big difference for
you actually understand and be able to
take action based on what they say.
Confidentiality, again very important
because you're asking people to
report on each other by name.
And this is, like many surveys,
is a relatively costly
method of data collection.
Takes a lot of time and
attention to develop a network survey and
administer it, so
what are our other options?
Well there are other sources that
we can get network data from and
just to list some of them here, but there
may be others that you are already aware
of and certainly there's others
coming on line all the time.
Probably, the biggest other source right,
that is sort of
everybody sort of thinking about
increasingly right now is big data, right.
Because we suddenly have
all this access to what
have been called the breadcrumbs
of our interactions, right?
We leave behind breadcrumbs when
we interact with each other
that can be used for other purposes.
So when we correspond by email,
or by phone, conferencing,
videoconferencing, sometimes when we
answer questions on bulletin boards, or
we interact via social media,
each of those interactions,
there's huge data sets available that you
can use to generate network maps, right?
Because those are dyadic interactions
between people, you can use that,
you can put that into a matrix exactly
like the one we were just looking at for
the 15 person development team and
apply network methods to understand
that and analyse that data.
So big data is a big opportunity to
collect network data, there are also
archival records from, offered from inside
organizations, some of the research I do.
We go and get proprietary information that
organizations are willing to share with
us, on things like how people
work together in the past,
have they worked on common projects,
do they go to the same school,
do they go to similar events
anything that is a proxy,
if not a direct measure of much
they might have interacted.
So, those are corporate databases, you can
also use public databases sometimes to get
again, measures of how
much people collaborate.
A lot of work is being done, a lot of
research is being done on patenting.
So, people patent together or
they co-author or
they, there are co-citations
to their manuscripts,
those are all sort of interactions
of some kind between those people.
And then finally,
the sort of more field-intensive,
really going out there and trying to
collect data from people as they're
interacting you can observe people
as they're working together,
you can ask people to keep diaries of
who they're talking to and how much.
And sometimes you can even have people
wear electronic tags that monitor who
they're talking to as they
walk down the corridor and
each of those those can provide the basis,
can provide network data.
They can all provide this dyadic data
about who interacting with whom.
Now often, you don't know exactly what's
going on in that interaction, but
they do let you know that some
interactions are happening.
So network data from other sources such
as these has some advantages, right?
Sometimes particularly with the big data,
you can get information on much larger
networks than you can
get through a survey.
It's less invasive, you're often
not asking people for anything,
it may be less expensive
if it's available anyway.
And maybe it's more objective measures
than asking people in a survey to report
what they're doing, hey you actually have,
oh well they emailed each other,
I know they did something.
But on the negative side or
on the con side,
there are serious privacy concerns about
using some of these kinds of data.
And if you have measures that are kind
of proxy's we don't necessarily know,
we may know the people are emailing each
other, we don't necessarily know whether
it's about work or maybe it's about
their social life or their kids.
It could be anything, right?
So maybe it's not such a good measure
unless you start looking at the content of
that interaction.
And then finally, these large data sets
are very promising but as we know large
data sets can often generate
a statistically significant findings that
look like there's something there but they
just don't, they're not that big effect.
They don't really matter that much.
So these other sources have some
disadvantages as well as some advantages
that are worth noting too.
So that is it for
mapping collaboration networks.
I hope you have a good sense at least of
what the kind of data is that we're trying
to collect when we map networks and
then how we can use that data to start
generating network maps that we
can then analyze and interpret and
go on to evaluate.